---
tags:
  - REVIEW
---
The nationalities of the Cara-Dönian islands have endured many ups and downs in the past ~300 years, both individually and shared. Below are short primers depicting the different occupations and residencies found within the different regions of this sacred land that can help inspire you in choosing your character's class:

# Barbarian 
Ropeshian Nomads (Cara): Nagaji barbarians are revered for their volcanic rage, embodying their connection to ancestral serpent spirits. Alseid Khans (Cara): Tashi Khans channel the unyielding power of their ancestors, wielding rage as a spiritual gift. Mesa Wanderers (Central Dön): Barbarians from the central deserts and mesa highlands are known for their rugged endurance. Their rage channels the harsh sun and unyielding stone, making them unrelenting warriors. Gleamwood Wildings (Western Dön): Among the Erdö Clans, Alseid barbarians view rage as the roar of the forest's spirit. Their fury is a controlled wildfire, striking down threats to the sacred Gleamwood. Pirate Reavers (Lesser Isles): Pirates of the Trilun and Isthar isles embrace a barbarian’s rage to inspire terror during raids, their fury as untamed as the sea. Philosophical Warriors: Barbarians at the UTET are rare but highly respected for their connection to primal emotion and instinct. Professors study their “rage” as a manifestation of raw, untamed willpower. These barbarians may serve as bodyguards, experiment with physical extremes, or challenge sages in philosophical debates about the nature of control. 

# Bard 
Ropeshian Storyweavers (Cara): Halfling bards preserve their people’s rich oral history, blending humor, wisdom, and song. Carain Minstrels (Cara): Gnome and Strix bards act as entertainers and spies, their melodies carrying veiled secrets. House Taran Lorekeepers (Eastern Dön): Tiefling and Elvi bards preserve the history of their noble houses through epic ballads and war songs, using their artistry to inspire loyalty and unity. Erdö Songweavers (Western Dön): In the Gleamwood, bards craft songs that harmonize with nature, drawing on the rhythm of the trees and the whispers of ancestral spirits. Sea Shanty Singers (Lesser Isles): Pirates and sailors rely on bards to rally crews with rousing shanties and whispered legends of hidden treasure. Performers of Enlightenment: UTET bards use their music and storytelling to inspire intellectual and emotional growth. Their performances are seen as vehicles for philosophical thought, with their songs weaving complex themes of morality, history, and cosmic truth. They are also key in preserving and sharing the University’s history. 

# Cleric 
Vólat Scholars (Western Cara - [[Vólatian Theocracy]]): Clerics of the Theocracy are polymaths, blending their hereditary "divine arts" with rigorous study of the Vólatian texts. These make up the beating heart of the Theocracy and its 
Imperial Guardians (Cara): Oread clerics protect their Smallfolk neighbors with earthbound strength and resilience. Tarani Warpriests (Eastern Dön): Clerics in the Houses Tahan are often militant leaders, channeling divine power to guide their armies and enforce their gods’ will on the battlefield. Forest Guardians (Western Dön): Among the Erdö, Alseid and Nagaji clerics blend divine magic with natural attunement, ensuring the balance of the Gleamwood while healing its protectors. Saltborn Preachers (Lesser Isles): Pirates often revere Tympestyr, the Stormbreaker, with clerics leading prayers to calm tempests or unleash them on their foes. Scholarly Devotees: Clerics at the UTET study the divine as both a faith and an academic pursuit. They analyze the theological intricacies of both the Kanirûl and Anarûl, often blending divine magic with rigorous philosophical or scientific investigation. They are just as likely to deliver lectures on celestial mechanics as they are to heal the sick. 

# Druid 
Wilding Earthmothers (Central Cara - [[Tashi]]): Tashi druids protect their clans with powerful rituals that reflect the spirit of the plains and earth that embraces them without boundary. 
Dynastic Herbalists (Eastern Cara - [[Ropeshian Dynasty]]): Druids of Ropesh combine their control of Primordial magic with studios herbalism, drawing on the wisdom of serpentine Greater Spirits for guidance. 
Keepers of the Gleamwood (Western Dön - Erdö): Druids of the Erdö Clans are the titular guardians of the forest’s ancient magic. Their spells blend seamlessly with the breaths of Kanyiirah, ensuring the Gleamwood thrives under the gentle hand of the [[Sylvania|Verdant Titan]]. 
Mesa Nomads (Central Dön): Druids wandering the arid, relentless deserts channel the resilient power of the very land, calling forth sandstorms, shattering stone, and hardening flora to protect their people. 
Stormcallers of Isthar ([[Lesser Isles]]): Druids that call the crystal coves within the lesser isles home draw their power from the turbulent seas, invoking [[Tympestyr]]’s blessings to shroud ships, guide merchants, or call forth gales of unmatched ferocity.
Ecological Scholars (Western Cara - [[University Towards Enlightened Truth|UTET]]): Resident druids at the University delve into the natural world as an academic discipline, nurturing small-scale ecosystems, coaxing the properties of magical flora, and researching the effects of ancient natural phenomena. %% They often collaborate with [[Elvi#Nox'eli|Nox'eli]] astronomers and [[Oread]] geologists to explore the connection between the Spheres and Kanyiirah’s life cycles.  %%

# Fighter 
Strategy Masters (Western Cara - UTET): Fighters at the UTET are tactical scholars who study warfare not just as a practice but as a science. They analyze the battles of the Thinning wars, develop new combat techniques for the generals of the Cara-Dönian nations, and even train others in the art of war should greater threats arise once again. Many serve as the University’s elite guards, protecting its treasures and sages.
Carain Watchers (Central Cara): Hobgoblin fighters train as protectors of Smallfolk farms, focusing on disciplined teamwork.
Ropeshian Bladelords (Eastern Cara - [[Ropeshian Dynasty]]): Sungardian fighters excel in dueling, blending honor and martial tradition. They follow the philosophical principles of great warriors like the Runebearers Ki’ju Rrop and Rukhzar Mao.
Industrial Blademakers (Eastern Dön - [[House Taran|Tarani Houses]]): Fighters of the Tarani Houses are disciplined tacticians, schooled in the combat of the narrow streets of tall cities like Caergold. Their loyalty to the ruling class drives them to keep their lands free of chaos. 
Pahlássian Mercenaries (Northern Dön): Fighters from the mercantile city-state of [[Pahlássia]] are pragmatic and efficient, often hired to guard trade routes or protect land caravans.
Corsairs (Lesser Isles): Pirates wield both blade and firearm with brutal efficiency, favoring aggressive and mobile tactics that can clear the decks of ships as quickly as possible. 

# Monks 
Seekers of Inner Truth (Western Cara - UTET): Monks at the University are deeply engaged in the study of the [[Planes of Existence|Ethereal plane]] as a metaphysical phenomenon. They view their discipline as a path to understanding the balance of the cosmos and often debate the philosophical implications of physical mastery and spiritual harmony. They walk a fine line between the rigors of the Vólatian Church and the mysticism of the [[Doctrines#Kindleheart Concordia|Kindleheart Concordia]]. 
Mistshroud Ascetics (Eastern Cara - [[Vólatian Theocracy]]): Strix monks from the Theocracy follow Lunatas’ teachings, mastering their inner focus through martial and religious discipline. 
Tashi Plainswalkers (Central Cara - [[Tashi]]): Tashi monks move like the wind, their ki strikes as swift as a galloping steed. 
Hermits of the Mesa (Central Dön): Monks from the mesas are reclusive seekers of enlightenment, mastering their bodies to survive in the harsh desert while channeling ki to achieve inner balance. 
Gleamblessed Windstriders (Western Dön - [[Erdö]]): Monks of the Erdön clans move with the grace of the forest winds, their inner power mimicking the fluid movements of nature as they strike with unmatched precision; some say with the guidance of [[Sylvania]]'s own whispers. 
Isleborn Strikers (Lesser Isles): Lithe strikers that find themselves under the command of a reaving Is'Deli captain blend acrobatics and stealth to scale ship riggings and dismantle foes swiftly in chaotic sea battles. 

# Paladins
The Sungardian Wall (Eastern Cara - [[Ropeshian Dynasty]]): Ropeshian paladins swear oaths of fealty to protect the capital city and the Khagan sovereign, serving as paragons of dynastic honor and defenders of [[Sungard]]’s sacred walls. 
Hammers of the Imperium (Northern Cara - [[Carain Empire]]): Paladins of the Carain Empire uphold the laws of the Imperium with unwavering resolve, blending divine conviction with the grounded pragmatism of their heritage. They are the steel arm of justice that fall upon the anvil of their foes, having never failed to crush any raiders that dare cross their borders in force. 
House Knights (Eastern Dön - [[House Taran]]): The most feared and respected custodians of the Houses swear fealty to a single Taran family member, their oaths binding them to honor, protection, and the relentless pursuit of their master's enemies. They serve as knights to enforce the will of their House, their numbers often being used as the metric by which the power of a single House member is measured. 
Wardens of the Gleamwood (Western Dön - Erdö): Erdön paladins are defenders of the forest, sworn to protect the Gleamwood from all who would exploit its riches—of which there are many.
Oathbound Protectors (Wester Cara - UTET): Officers of the University often swear oaths tied to ideals of knowledge, truth, or enlightenment. They act as defenders of intellectual freedom and custodians of the University's mission, many wielding their divine powers to protect the campus and its scholars, while some go on to teach courses of law and and doctrines of order as faculty. 
Maelstrom Vanguards (Lesser Isles - [[Unified Coalition of Dönian Merchants|Unified Coalition]]): Paragons of coin that wish to see their wealth truly protected lean on the ruthless tact of the Maelstrom Vanguard battalions. These dominant commanders swear oaths to [[Tympestyr]] and the protection of the sea, fighting as storm-touched champions to guard their crews from plunderers with a righteous fervor.

# Rangers
Arcanist Lorewalkers (Western Cara - UTET): Focused on exploration, these keen-eyed trackers serve as field researchers who document magical anomalies and chart unexplored regions. They often bring back rare samples and firsthand knowledge to expand the University’s archives. They are the foremost experts in the diverse lands that made up the sacred isles of Cara-Dön. 
Highland Stalkers (Northern Cara - Empire): Hobgoblin scouts excel in rocky terrain, securing their borders and farmlands. Their bonds with their Smallfolk neighbors of the Frostfire foothills are of shared survival and trust. 
Basin Pathfinders (Central Cara - Tashi): Rangers of the Tashi river basin bond deeply with the open plains, guiding their tribes through treacherous terrains and repelling outsiders who threaten their sovereignty as they follow the migration paths of their essential herds. 
Desert Trackers (Central Dön): Rangers of the central desert are expert survivalists, tracking prey across vast, arid landscapes and defending their kin from dangers hidden in the sands. 
Forest Pathfinders (Western Dön - Erdö): [[Nagaji]] and [[Alseid]] Rangers of the Gleamwood serve as scouts and protectors, using their knowledge of the forest to outmaneuver intruders and protect their people from the most unsavory of the Is'Deli Brotherhood. 
Sea Hunters (Lesser Isles): Rangers of the isles learn to navigate the seas early in life, reading the patterns of currents and winds to predict the most dangerous atmospheres that sailors dare brave. Their deadly precision is also legendary amongst the Taran and Is'Deli alike, as nothing can send a ship's crew into a panic like the invisible strikes of a sniper from the crow's nest of an enemy ship — or worse, from the shadows of a shrouded cove.

# Rogues
Information Specialists (Western Cara - UTET): Rogues at the University are experts in uncovering secrets, whether through stealth, cunning, or intellectual deduction. They act as spies, archivists, and even cryptographers, delving into forbidden knowledge and uncovering truths hidden in ancient texts or artifacts. 
Undermountain Syndicates (Northern Cara - Carain Empire): Oread and Gnome rogues thrive in the Empire’s bustling cities, navigating their labyrinthine alleys with cunning and guile, often working as smugglers or thieves. 
Tarani Shadowblades (Eastern Dön - [[House Taran|Tarani Houses]]): Rogues of the Taran are often spies or assassins, working in the shadows to secure their house’s dominance through subterfuge and sabotage. 
Pahlássia Smugglers (Northern Dön): In the bustling city-state, rogues thrive as smugglers, thieves, and mercenaries, navigating the underbelly of [[Pahlássia]] with cunning and skill. 
Shadowhands of the Church (Western Cara - Theocracy): Rogues within the Theocracy operate under a veil of bureaucracy, their skills often used for espionage or ensuring "order" through less savory means. 
Corsair Cutthroats (Lesser Isles - Is'Deli): Rogues of the Is'Deli are the most feared terror of the seas, striking swiftly and stealing both treasures and lives with ruthless efficiency. The remaining shrewd and opportunistic cuthtroats in the lesser isles can find gainful employment behind desks and wearing the fine suits within the Silver Shores Consortuim's Sunken Bank.

# Sorcerers
Living Experiments (Western Cara - UTET): Sorcerers are seen as fascinating subjects of study, their innate magic a puzzle for scholars to unravel. These individuals often participate in magical experiments to better understand the origins and limits of their power, contributing both to their growth and to the University’s knowledge. 
Titanborn Mystics (Central Cara - Tashi clans): Sorcerers among the river clans are shunned as the manifestations of improper bloodlines, cursed with the dangerous Wyrd chaos that caused the Departure. They exist as true nomads, rarely settling amongst the clans for any extended period of time.
Those of the Blessed Blood (Eastern Cara - Ropesh): Among Ropeshian [[Elvi]], sorcerers are said to carry the echoes of Nashtara in their blood, their magic unpredictable yet revered as a symbol of divine favor that is ever-tied to the arrival of the [[Kanirûl Pantheon|Kanirûl]]. 
Worldbringers (Western Dön - [[Erdö]]): Sorcerers among the Erdön are believed to draw their magic from long-dormant Titan [[Sylvania]], channeling the will of the most wild, natural force known exist within the isles, capable of awakening a storm of primal energy within their veins. 
Tarani Nobility (Eastern Dön - [[House Taran|Tarani Houses]]): Tiefling sorcerers in the Houses only come from the bloodlines of the ruling families. Revered as conduits of true authority in this post-Thining world, their magic is a symbol of their house’s domination and perfect control over the blessings of the [[Kanirûl Pantheon|Kanirûl]]. 
Seaheart Spellcasters (Lesser Isles): [[Aqualii]] Sorcerers born of the ocean or storms wield volatile magic tied to the ever-changing seas. Their loyalties are are ever-shifting as the tides, capable of being dangerous and feared adversaries one moment, and powerful and chaotic allies the next. 

# Warlocks
Contractual Researchers (Western Cara - UTET): Warlocks are treated with a mix of curiosity and caution on campus. Their pacts with otherworldly entities are studied for their metaphysical and theological implications. Many warlocks see the University as a neutral ground to explore their powers without judgment. 
Contract Callers (Central Cara - Tashi clans): Warlocks are known to form pacts with spirits of the winds or the echoes of ancient ancestors. Their magic is a blend of mysticism and mystery informed by beings that rarely make themselves known.
Imperial Voidbinders (Northern Cara - Carain Empire): Warlocks in the Empire often draw the attention — and sometimes ire — of entities that crawl from the crags and depths of the mountains themselves. Their magic is feared but reluctantly accepted for its power. 
Pahlássian Pactmakers (Northern Dön): Warlocks of Pahlássia often strike bargains with duplicitous spirits or industrial entities, wielding illusive power to advance their city’s wealth and influence, or their own. 
Erdön Wyrdings (Western Dön - [[Erdö]]): Warlocks among the Erdön form pacts with forest spirits or ancient ancestors, their bonds deeply entwined with the natural world and the diverse, sometimes sentient fauna that wonder the enchanting glades of the Gleamwood. 
Sea-Bound Pactmakers (Lesser Isles - Is'Deli Brotherhood): Desperate pariahs cast out from the civilized nations often catch the attention of wandering storm spirits, entities of the depths, or the enigmatic beings that only whisper to those that approach the Eternal Maelstrom.

# Wizards
Enlightened Scholars (Western Cara - UTET): Wizards dominate the UTET, their thirst for arcane knowledge aligning perfectly with the University’s mission. They explore cutting-edge magical theory, collaborate with other disciplines, and often teach classes on the intricacies of arcane manipulation and the history of magic. 
Vólatian Academics (Western Cara - Theocracy): Wizards residing in the capital of Virtue are scholars first, practitioners second, blending Lunatas’ arcane principles with rigorous study. Their knowledge is sought across Cara. 
Dynastic Hedge Mages (Eastern Cara - Ropesh): In the more remote areas of Ropesh, wizards practice a patchwork form of arcane magic, their craft honed through ancestral teachings and experimentation. 
Tarani Arcanists (Eastern Dön - Tarani): Wizards of the [[House Taran|Tarani Houses]] are highly educated, blending arcane theory with feudal pragmatism to reinforce their house’s power and prestige. 
Mesa Scholars (Central Dön): Wizards from the mesa highlands are self-taught hermits, scavenging the ancient ruins left behind from the Era of Walking Gods for knowledge and weaving together patchwork spellcraft. 
Seafarer Savants (Lesser Isles - [[Unified Coalition of Dönian Merchants|Unified Coalition]]): Skilled mages of the merchant Coalition leverage their arcane their intellect to navigate the seas as cartographers and meteorologists, occasionally devising arcane traps to hide from bloodythirsty pirates or for deterring pursuing sea beasts.