# **⸺ _Content Warning_ ⸺**
> **_This text contains a dark, fictional account of direct sexual assault and murder_** 


None bore the pain of this world more than [[Valencia]]. She fought for so long to be the embodiment of all things good and beautiful in this new world, but time after time she was simply sought out to be used and abused by others. Even her most ardent worshipers fell to their penitent knees with selfishness and greed in their hearts. None called upon her with empathy, no one took her hand with unconditional love. And eventually, her heart could take no more. Under the weight of the sins of others thrust upon her, she broke.

In the last couple decades before the Departure, during a time when the rest of the [[Kanirûl Pantheon|Kanirûl]] were gathered at [[Ech'Yinara]] to strategize and shore up their defenses against the [[Vault#Witnesses of the Departure|corruptions of Catastrophe]], Valencia instead stole away in solitude to the shrine of the Mother [[Darkness|Vespera]] in Delipol. There, The Heartkindler undertook a dark ritual to call upon the Night. She begged the greater being to take her life, pleaded and wept for her suffering to end. But the Mother did not respond. Instead, others heard her call...
  
A foul Elvi man named Rathus and his seven sons were drunk on strong brew that night in Caldira, starting trouble and seeking to sate their dark appetites. They stumbled upon the shrine and saw the goddess thrown across the feet of Vespera's statue, the very image of perfect beauty laid bare and vulnerable before them. The Apathy of Greed tugged at their loins and they were moments away from setting upon her to fulfill their desires. Rathus was the only one to take pause, knowing the consequences such an act against the goddess would carry...  
But still, the dark-hearted Rathus saw an opportunity; for you see a loathsome Iniquity had festered long in his heart, ever since the [[Kanirûl Pantheon|Kanirûl]] gods began walking amongst their mortal subjects. **_Why should they be the only ones given such power?_** Besides the god-king Solanas' introduction of the Law of Inheritance, what had any of them done to deserve such power and might? No, Rathus was not just full of Greed that night, for he sought a greater prize than the sating of his own carnal desires... He planned to take her very divinity. Though the specifics of absorbing the fracture of Myst that was bound to the goddess's soul were lost on his dull mind, what he and his spawn did that night echoed into history for all time.  
  
As the evening grew cold around them, all eight of the Rathus line fell upon the goddess of love and partook of the greatest sin that had ever been committed: this Thief found Valencia in her throws of sorrow and as he and his sons were driven blind and mad by the Apathies that swarmed about at their own mother's despair, Rathus tore out her very heart and feasted on the flesh of the goddess's immortal form. They all took part and became then like beasts, barely resembling humanoid form as their bodies began to wither and smoke. It took many hours after the deed was done for them to calm and realize what had happened to them.  
Rathus had succeeded, his line had stolen the fragment of Myst from the goddess, a theft of unimaginable cost. The great power was now theirs. But their black hearts were too weak to wield it, their souls too stained and their spirits too shallow to grasp hold of her immense font of power that now burned through their veins. %% They were also not Named inheritors of the power, making them the first beings to be directly cursed by the laws that govern even the Endless themselves. %% Instead, the gift they had stolen transformed into a vile blood-curse of insatiable hunger, creating in their heritage a permanent shackle, known neither to death nor life, cursed as the world's first Vampyrs.  
  
The power of Myst's fragment granted the Rathus bloodline naturally attractive features while enhancing their bodies in supernatural ways. Their connection to others is stronger, bonds formed through marriage, lust, or oath are neigh unbreakable, magically empowered by the very blood in their veins. Consequently, they can influence others with their charm before enslaving them to their will. Though all falls away into meaningless chuff in the shadow of their curse: they are slaves to their hunger for blood. The burning need never truly vanishes in their bellies, always urging them to feed and relish in the death of other beings. They are some of the truest monsters ever to walk the shores of the great isles.

- - -
And what of Valencia? Her body slain and ripped to pieces, her spirit unbound, and even her very soul was cast aside that night, bludgeoned and scarred for eternity. And though the fragment of Myst was no longer bound to it, Valencia's battered spirit was still immortal from its exposure to Infinity, and therefore unable to pass any Gate in the Beyond. But as her weakened soul limped to the Gates of Silence, the Mother [[Darkness|Vespera]] finally came to her, halting the natural pull of the [[Kanirûl Pantheon|Kanirûlian]] goddess' soul to [[Muérai]]. The Mother of Trickery reveled in her victory, the ever-echoing whispers of her voice invading Valencia's mind and torturing her into a stasis of helpless panic. Then, just a suddenly, the whispers diminished, and a new voice rang clear, reverberating through what remained of her like the of clearest bells. The voice of the Mother [[Fate|Asteria]], the gift-giver of Foresight, cut through Valencia's suffering. Unable to call upon the power spirit once wielded, or even feel the pain of her broken form, Valencia pleaded with the [[Anarûl Pantheon|Anarûl]] goddesses to end her existence. But at a single word from the Mother of Stars, the power of Fate renewed her from the inside out, mending the cracks in her spirit like a healing spring. Staggered by the power she just witnessed, Valencia nearly missed the soft spoken words uttered by Fate that destined her for a new purpose, ushering her swiftly towards the overwhelming brilliance that made up the Radiant Halls of [[Lämmrus]]. Under the shadows of that darkest night she was spared an eternal suffering and instead returned to [[Aethmi-Istar]]'s side as a powerful queen. Yet still she was denied true autonomy, even as her lover promised to properly bless with new demigod [[Vaal'k]] children...